Dynamic Typing:
We need NOT to specify the data type. Unlike the other languages where we specifically mention the data type for a variable.

python supports Dynamic typing where we NEED NOT to specify the data type explicitly.

Static typing: Viceversa of Dynamic typing. we need to specify the data type of the vairable which indicates the data we store in that variable.

Keywords:

Python is a case sensitive programming language.

In programming a keyword is a word that is reserved by a programming language because it has a special meaning. Keywords can be commands or parameters. Every programming language has a set of Keywords that cannot be used as variable names.

Python provides a module called keyword (note the lowercase "k") that contains a list of reserved keywords in Python.

There are 33 keywords in python.
Keywords list include:
['False', 'None', 'True', 'and', 'as', 'assert', 'async', 'await', 'break', 'class', 'continue', 'def', 'del', 'elif', 'else', 'except', 'finally', 'for', 'from', 'global', 'if', 'import', 'in', 'is', 'lambda', 'nonlocal', 'not', 'or', 'pass', 'raise', 'return', 'try', 'while', 'with', 'yield']

Using these keywords as variable names will result in errors.

Identifier:
Python Identifier is a name used to identify a variable, function, class, module or other object.
Rules for setting Identifier:
1. Only start with alphabet or _(Down slash)
2. Followed by 0 or more letter,_ and digits
3. Keywords cannot be used as identifiers

Types of software:
1. Static software (Uni Directional)
2. Dynamic software //This highlights the importance of input function which help us to take input from the user.

Whenever we use input function the programmer will always get the input in the form of string.

Type function:
This will help us to know about the data type of the value which we give.

Type conversions:
1. Implicit 
2. Explicit 

int function:
This can be used to convert data type into integer.
Strings with float value cannot be converted into integer.

Ex: int(4.5) this throws an error.
Type conversions are not permanent operations.


Literals:
It is a raw data given to a variable. In python we have four types of literals. They are:
1. Numeric literal
2. String literal
3. Boolean literal
4. Special literal

Numeric Literal:
a. integer
b. float
c. complex

0b1010 #Binary "0b" represent Binary notation
100 #Decimal
0o310 #Octal "0o" represent Octal notation
0x12C #Hexadecimal "0x" represent Hexadecimal notation

Scientific notation = 1.5e2 "e2" represent exponent i.e. 1.5 * 10^2
Scientific notation = 1.5e-2 "e-2" represent exponent i.e. 1.5 * 10^-2
x = 5j
# real and imaginary part of complex number where x.real is real part and x.imag is imaginary part.

String literals:
a. Single quotes
b. Double quotes
c. Triple quotes //These are used to print multi line text.
There is no particular data type called char in python. Everything in python is considered as string.

Unicode strings are accepted by python. we need to specify the unicode with "u". This help us to print emojis.
Raw string can be printed in python. Generally raw string is used when we want to print html code which consist of many special characters.

Boolean literal:
True indicates '1'.
False indicates '0'.
a = True + 4 //We encounter a Implicit type conversion which result in the value of 'a' as 5.
b = False + 10 //the value of false is Implicitly taken as '0' and the value of 'b' is 10.

Special literal
a = None There is no vairable declaration in py. we use this when we want to declare a varibale and assign none so that ntg is stored in it. This variable remains ideal yet we can use it in future advancements. This is generally helpful in the scenario when we are working with team.

For instance your manager may ask you to declare a variable which he might use later. 
When we declare 0 or anyother value there is a risk of error in our logic. To avoid such situations we use None.

Operators:
1. Arithmetic Operators
2. Comparison Operators
3. Logical Operators
4. Bitwise Operators
5. Assignment Operators
6. Identity Operators
7. Membership Operators

1.Arithmetic Operators: +, -, /, *, %, //(used to convert quotient into integer), x**y(Double star indicate power)

2.Comparison operators(Relational operators): >, <, >=, <=, ==, !=

3.Logical Operators: 
AND OR NOT
AND = True when both the values are True
OR = True when atleast one value is True
NOT = It shows the opposite of the current value.

4.Bitwise Operators: useful when working with binary values. These are generally used in image processing.
&-(BITWISE AND) = It return 1 when both a & b are 1.
|(BITWISE OR) = It returns 1 when atleast one value is 1.
>>(LEFT SHIFT) = shift bits to left by the given value
<<(RIGHT SHIFT) = shift bits to right by the given value.
^(XOR) = It compares each bit of two numbers and return 1 if the bits are different. 0 is bits are same. 
~(COMPLIMENT)= turns 0 to 1 and Viceversa

5.Assignment operator: =
It is used to store a value to the variable.

Pre-incremenet and post-increment are not allowed in python.

6.Identity Operator:
This indicate the memory location of the variables.
For instance both the variables may hold the same value yet they are not identical. The memory locations of the variables differ.

If the value of variables is same yet this does not mean that they are at same memory location.

"is" checks if two variables point to the same object (memory location).
For immutable types (like small integers), Python may reuse objects.
For mutable types (like lists), each assignment creates a new object.

7.Membership operator:
This indicate the presence of particular thing(character here) in the container(string here). 
Note: String in the above context is taken as container for understanding.
example below: 
x = "Delhi"
print("D" not in x)

This is applicable for list, dictionaries, sets etc.

Decision control Statements:
Branching: this is the phenomena where we have two directions to move ahead. 
For instance:
In login page if the credentials are correct give the profile/home page. If not throw a error which states incrt credentials.
We do not have any brackets for if - else.
If BRANCHING increases includes no. of branches we need to use else if.

Note: In python we write "elif" where as in other languages it is written as "else if".

Indentation:
Python does not use semi colon(;) and curly braces unlike other programming language.
Instead the program structure is define by the spaces from the margin. One Decision control statement uses one tab space.
It improves the code readability and help in easy debugging.

Loops:
Best example to understand loops concepts real world usage is:
E - commarce platform(FlipKart)
Zomato (Food Delivery App) etc.

All this display the content in same structure the only change is the content present in it. To display n no. of products we use loops and we fetch the data from database to change the content.

Types of loops:
1. while
2. for 

while <condition>:
    code

Random function:
This is use to select a random number from the given range of numbers.It returns the number from a given range of numbers. It includes the both the numbers.

2. for loop:
range function: this is used to include the numbers in that range. The end value is not included in the range function.
It includes start, stop, step.

range(0,5) = here the start number is 0 and end is 5(which is excluded).
range(5) = The start is assumed as 0 and the end is 5(excluded)
step parameters is used to create the difference in numbers. When step = 2. The difference between consecutive number is 2.

Sequence: 
we have a Sequence of characters, strings, list, tuple & Dictionaries.

For loop iterate on Sequence or range function.
we need not to specify the increment operator or termination condition. We use range function or sequence to end the for loop. 

Tip: When you are unaware about the no. of iterations then use while loop and when you have an clear understanding or no. of iterations use for loop.

Nested loop:
Loops are placed inside the other loops.
The outer loop runs first.
For each iteration of the outer loop, the inner loop runs completely.

Control flow statements:
Break, continue, pass

Break - use to end the loop and stop iterations.
Useful in linear searching, where we find the number. Once the number is found we break the iteration. This help us in reducing the time complexity.

continue - use to skip the particular iteration. Loop does not terminate here.
Usecase: printing product details which are in stock and skipping the iteration for the product which is out of stock.

pass - It is generally used when you are not aware about the logic. So you use pass.
Pass statement help us to avoid syntax error.
The pass statement in Python is a null operation—it does nothing when executed. It is used as a placeholder in situations where syntactically some code is required, but you do not want any command or code to execute.

Built-in Funciton:
Function: It is a block of code which takes some input and generate output.
1. print() - print function takes the input and gives the output.
2. input() - takes the input from the user. This always accepts the input in the form of string functions we need to convert into other data types using type conversion.
3. type() - this help us to find the data type of the input.

4. Data type functions:
    a.int()- convert into integer datatype
    b.float() - convert into float datatype
    c.list()
    d.tuple()
    e.string

5. abs (absolute function) - this is modulus(use to convert negative values to the positive. In math -(-x) where x is the value given in abs function) function. Useful in machine learning.

6. pow - use to calculate the exponential value of a number. pow(2,3) - 2 ^ 3 = 8

7. min/max - use to find the min & max value.

8. round - use to round off the number to the nearest number and this help us to choose the number of decimal values to be displayed.

9. Divmod = it returns the tuple in two formats. (x//y, x%y) i.e.(integer divison, modulus)

10. bin/oct/hex = this functions give us three type of values such as binary, octal, Hexadecimal.

11. id = used to find the address of memory location.

12. ord = it returns the ASCII value of a alphabet

13. len = length of the given value.

14. sum = it helps in iteration and give the final output.

15. help = to know the original documentation.

MODULE:
It is a file containing set of functions which can be included in our application when necessary.
example:
math,random,os,time

To access the number of functions in a module, type the module name dot(.) then tab.
math = contains all the mathematical functions in it.
random = this contains many functions in it. Most used functions are randint, shuffle.

time = use to ctime(See time)
give the time span i.e. no. of seconds from jan 1 to till now.

time.sleep() = this will create a time gap of number of seconds you mention in sleep and print the nxt statements.

os - getcwd (gets current working directory)
listdir() - list the files in the directory. 

STRINGS:
In all application programming language you will get string as data type. In all the application based programming language we wil use strings to interact with users.
In system software programming language like c does not have string as data type as it is used to interact with the hardware not with users.

In python specifically, strings are a sequence of unicode characters.
ASCII can only represent 128 characters (or 256 in extended ASCII),which covers basic English letters, digits, and a few symbols.

Unicode can represent all characters from all languages(like Hindi, Chinese, Arabic, Russian, etc.), as well as emojis, math symbols, and more—over 140,000 characters.

Unicode is needed for global communication, supporting all languages and symbols, while ASCII is only suitable for basic English text. Unicode makes modern software and the internet truly international.

1. Creating strings
2. Accessing Strings
3. Adding chars to strings
4. Editing Strings
5. Deleting Strings
6. Operations on Strings
7. String Functions

1. Creating Strings:
We can create strings using single, Double and multiple inverted commas.
""" - used to create a multi line strings.

2. Accessing strings:
Indexing & slicing - used to access string characters from the string.
Indexing is used to obtain a character at that index. 
Types of indexing:
1. Positive Indexing:- First character index value is 0 and eventually it increases till end. Index position moves from left to right.
2. Negative indexing:- We move from right to left. Generally this is used when we are unaware about the length of the string. Last character in a string can be accessed using negative indexing.

slicing: We can access no. of characters in one go. 
Syntax: Start(Starting index) : end(Ending Index)
Here the end index is not considered. We get till the end - 1 characters.
In negative indexing last index is not allowed.
We can use step parameter in the string.
Step cannot be negative when we are working with positive indexing.
[::-1] - use to reverse a string. '::' each colon indicates the start and end index to be accessed. As mention ':' it start from 0 index and get till last. we use -1 as step which help us to reverse string.

Editing & Deleting:
1. Editing
we cannot edit the single character in a string. It is immutable(it cannot be changed) data type.
We can completely re-assign to the string varible but cannot be edited and we cannot add new characters to the existing string.
2. Deletion:
we have a keyword del to remove the string stored in the variable. 
Note: Here the stored string is not getting deleted. Instead a whole variable is getting deleted. Strings cannot be deleted or edited as they are immutable.

Operations on string:
1. Arithmetic Operations
2. Relational Operations
3. Logical Operations
4. Loops on strings
5. Membership Operations (in, not in)

Arithmetic Operations:
+ In strings we use + operator to concatinate.
* We use this to multiply the string.

/ - These operators cannot be used in string operations.

Relational operators: == != can be use to compare strings.

> < :- used for string comparisions.
String comparision takes place based on Lexographical order.
In english Alphabets capital Letters come first and the small letters next.

Logical Operator: 
python consideration:
""(Empty strings) -> False
"Absh" (Non empty strings)-> True
useful for Logical operators.

"and" returns the first falsy value or the last value if all are truthy.
"or" returns the first truthy value.
Non-empty strings are truthy; empty strings are falsy.

Loops in string: We can apply sequencing and iteration on strings.
c = "Hello-world"
for i in c[::]:
    print(i)